one of the most frequently requested
recipes on the one pot chef show is for
mashed potatoes I've never quite
understood why because it seemed like
such a simple recipe I was surprised
that so many people email me asking for
this particular recipe until I did a bit
of research and discovered that
virtually no cookbooks or online sites
have very specific recipes for mashed
potato
they often request it for other recipes
but do not actually give a specific way
of cooking it so I thought I'm going to
remedy that situation by putting
together a nice little video showing you
how to make two different versions of
mashed potato the firm version that is
pretty much everyone's used to and a
nice soft creamy version that's suitable
for piping or just having the nice
sloppy version that everyone loves so
it's mashed potatoes other one-putt chef
you
so mashed-potato is now the first thing
that people need to learn when it comes
to magic potatoes is consistency is
everything you've got to get the right
consistency in order to make sure it all
stays together nicely if you put too
much of one thing or not enough of
another it's going to turn into a mess
so first of all I have peeled and
chopped one kilo of potatoes now I'll
just this is in water at the moment so
I'm just going to take a one of these
out as you can see it's a very small
piece about maybe 1 to 2 centimeters
square about an inch piece roughly you
need to have small pieces smaller pieces
will cook quicker and more consistently
it's like any other kind of cooking the
smaller the food the quicker and better
it cooks so we put this in some water
I'm just going to put the lid on and
we're going to bring that to the boil
and let it boil for about 15 to 20
minutes at which point we can take a
piece out test to see if it's cooked
properly the way you take it out
give it a bit of a press with your
finger and if it sort of pushes up you
know it's ready to go
so we'll start boiling this and I'll
show you what to do next well it's been
15 to 20 minutes and we've just finished
boiling the potatoes I've drained them
off in the sink so first thing we're
going to do is just mash them up with a
potato masher
we've got rid of all the big lumps out
of that as you can see because we've
cooked them the right way they're nice
and smooth for the moment so we're going
to throw in about a tablespoon of butter
excess of that
and we're just going to stir that
through until it's all melted through
seasoned with salt and pepper and just
stir that through a moment now at this
point you can add some garlic if you
want to make garlic mashed potatoes
you could add cheese who want to make a
cheesy mash potatoes basically this is
your firm basic mashed potatoes done so
you can serve as is if however you want
to make it that smooth creamy stuff
especially if you're trying to make it a
bit fancier you can use like a icing
pipe or something like that to sort of
make an arrangement on the plate then we
can add something else you can use sour
cream you can use thickened cream I'm
going to use a little bit of milk we
just add a small amount at a time about
up to half a cup at most and you just
slowly add it until you get the
consistency that you're looking for as
you can see I'm just adding a little
dribble at a time and you can already
see that's becoming a lot smoother and
fluffier
Little Miss business that's looking
fabulous just like that and that's
looking just about right there so I
don't think we'll add any more there so
that's about a quarter of a cup of milk
all up there as I say consistency is the
key you've just got to add a little bit
at a time until you get what you're
looking for and then we have perfect
creamy mashed potatoes and perfect firm
mashed potatoes first time every time
well I hope you've enjoyed this recipe
check out my other videos at youtube.com
slash one-pot chef show and until next
time see you later